Fromm Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lauren's Ryan announcing show
number one 24. Recorded live
Thursday, July 21st, 2008. Support for Hanselman
it's just provided by teller.
Already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelbrik.com. Support is also provided
by.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with sun Microsystems engineer, Tim
Bray. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
I'm sitting here today with
Tim Bray, distinguished engineer from
sun Microsystems and a fellow
Twitter, Twitter, Twitter. How are
you, sir? Thanks for sitting
down with me today. Not
too bad. Good to be
here. We actually set this
up on, on Twitter, which
I'm finding more and more
is my, my third place
of choice. I'm seeing you
on Twitter a lot as
well. When did you get
into the microblogging Put her
hat it's, you know, first
Renaissance in 2006 at South
by Southwest, and then it
had another one. Oh, I
don't know it was it
early this year, late last
year. I forget which and
I climbed on board then
and it sure adds richness
to life. Yeah, this is
my first interview set up
by Twitter. And yesterday I
had my first lunch date
initiated on Twitter and just
10 minutes ago, Paul Kedrosky
tweeted. He stopped reading RSS
feeds because he gets it
off and Twitter now, which
I thought was a little
extreme. Wow. That is a
little extreme. Considering that Twitter
only allows 160 characters. I
don't know if the short
attention span of the internet
is really getting healthy when
you constrain it to that
kind of a short burst
of information. Well, shorter is
often better, but on the
other hand, if everybody's going
to do that there, I
mean, there has to be
somebody injecting a new information
into the conversation somewhere. Yeah,
it I'm starting to wonder.
I mean, if I was,
I've always wondered if the
internet itself was healthy in
the sense of the, the,
I feel like I have
a shorter attention span. There's
more of a, of a
need to be connected. Are
you someone who Twitters at
your desk or do you,
do you tweet mobily? I
don't do it mobily. I
only do it when I'm
actually sitting in front of
a computer. You know, Nick
COVID over at MIT posted
this long piece in some
magazine recently about, you know,
the, that the internet and
Google are making a stupid
and, you know, and reducing
our capacity to deal with
long form information and so
on. And it, you know,
kicked off a predictable, a
predictable conversation. And, and, and,
and it is true that,
you know, I certainly read
fewer long books than I
used to, but I don't
feel stupid or I feel
better informed. You know, there's
gotta be a rebalancing of
our, of our attitudes towards
information as the PA pattern
changes. That's all there is
to it. But don't you
think that, that human brains
like computers, that kind of
the optimal number of threads
in any system like that
is, is one and that,
you know, intense, focused single-tasking
is a valuable thing and
that the internet is promoting
a level of context switching
that maybe unhealthy Well, that's
true to some extent. I
mean, you and I are
both fortunate enough to be
in a field where there's
a strong career development and
you know, when you're doing
something creative, there's no excuse.
There's no substitute for getting
into the flow and getting
that single minded focus. On
the other hand, a very
high part of most people's
jobs, including mine is communication.
And, you know, being plugged
into a several hundred parallel
information flows increases my effectiveness
at that part of my
job. Now is Twitter something
that you put on another
monitor and just kind of
do your work well, the
river of news flows over
you, or do you sit
down and focus on the
river for awhile and then
focus on your work? I
look at Twitter intermittently, no,
it doesn't go on a
separate screen. It it's, they're
off in a corner and
I look at it and
I have a Mac. So
I have this thing called
growl. That puts up things
momentarily on my screen when
they come in and sometimes
they get my attention. And
sometimes they don't. One thing
about Twitter is I don't
worry about missing stuff. You
know, unlike some other things,
if you know, when I've
been away from the computer
for two hours and come
back, I don't go back
and see what was in
the Twitter stream. No, that's
fair. That's a very interesting
point because Nick Bradbury, the
author of the most popular
RSS reader on windows was
called feed demon recently commented
that the, the items list
pain, the pain that makes
his application look a lot
like outlook and keeps track
of read and unread items
is something that he's been
trying to get rid of
as a, as the designer
of his application for a
number of years now, the,
and I've always felt that
the, the psychic weight of
those unread items causes me
stress. It causes me background
amounts of stress. The idea
that, gosh, I really need
to go, I need to
get through that. Just like
the, the weight of the
things on your TiVo that
are unwatched somehow took something
that was joyous and relaxing,
like watching TV and then
made it a to do
list. But with Twitter, you
don't have that sense Or
the weight of the things
in your inbox. You know,
for my RSS reader, I
eventually took a willful action
and I made two top
level folders, which are originally
named a and B and
in a go, the things
that I don't want to
miss, there are a certain
number of people. And so
on that when, you know,
when they post, I, I
want to make sure I
have read it because they're,
you know, information sources that
I consider important and then
everything else goes in B
and B is totally total
river of news. You know,
if stuff scrolls off well,
Hey, you know, if it's
important, it'll come back to
me. Okay. Huh? So you're
managing all aspects of information
flow into your life as
things that are truly an
inbox versus the river. I
think, I think it's, it's
not maintainable to try and
go either one way or
the other. You know, I
think there are some things
that, you know, gotta be
paid attention to it because
that's what your mission in
life is. And there are
others that enrich your life,
but are optional. That's interesting.
That sounds like the classic
Covey style of organization where
you put things in quadrants
and things are either urgent
important or some combination of
the two. And I've been
trying to reconcile the Covey
way of thinking, which kind
of is appropriate in the
context of your a and
B example with the, the
new resurgence of the getting
things done, style of doing
things where things either require
action or they require action
later, or they're just for,
for reference. Do, do you
subscribe to any particular organizational
thing or do you just
scribble stuff on a piece
of paper? I, you know,
I've had to abandon paper.
I, you know, during that
period of my life, when
I handled a lot of
paper, my desk was always
messy and I always felt
the disorder are pressing me.
And since I've managed to
become almost entirely paper-free, my
desk is neat and I'm
more relaxed. And I think
the reason is simply the,
the, you know, the, that
the, it makes it easier.
The, the electronic information flows
are easier to sort into,
into prioritize streams. Now I
find a lot of time
of my own time is
spent not just organizing lists
and moving items from place
to place and kind of
becoming a human filing cabinet.
But I'm spending a lot
of time transforming formats from
one form to another, like,
I'll have an Apple, you
know, a $10 application that
transfers things from outlook to
Google calendar. And then another
application that goes from Google
calendar to this other thing.
And I'm spending an awful
lot of time transforming stuff
from one format to another.
But I do realize that
the internet is marching forward
in the sense of openness
is definitely there. And, you
know, when I find an
application that doesn't have an
API, I'm shocked, like I'm
frankly shocked that I can't
manage Netflix effectively because there's
no API public API for,
for Netflix. Well, the other
thing that's qualitatively improved just
in the last few years
is that my desktop computer
has excellent search now, so
that I don't lose things
in there very much. And
then all the other places,
I put things around servers
at one place or another,
and they also have excellent
search. So I obsess less
about where to put things,
because I know that I
can get them back when
I need to, you know,
in mail, Gmail has sort
of introduced this notion of
the archive button. I sorta
thinks that everything should now
have an archive button so
that you can make it
go away, but, you know,
we'll be able to find
it when you need Yeah,
but I'm having trouble reconciling
the, pushing the archive button
and the comfort that I'll
have that, you know, I'll,
if I need that, I'll
find it with the idea
that it should be in
front of my eyeballs. Lest
I forget about it all
altogether. You know, I think
that Mac users tend to
have a clean desktop. The
Mac environment promotes a clean
desktop. I think that a
lot of windows users might
myself included have just a
bunch of crap on their
desktop that is there to
remind them not to throw
those things away. I'm wondering
what a, maybe I should
write an application with a
big button that says archive
that simply takes crap off
your desktop and sticks it
into a folder called archive.
Just so it's not there
in front of my eyeballs
Windows these days, I assume
comes with pretty decent search
capabilities. Yeah. It's got the
same kind of spotlight search,
you know, click one button
and start typing and things
show up. Right. That that's
really, I think, been a
quality of life improver for
those of us who are
information centric and computers. Yeah.
Interestingly enough, even with, I've
got two Macs in the
house in three windows machines,
and none of them, I
can, I can't search these
machines as fast as I
can search Google itself. There's
a certain irony in that,
but I haven't got a
distributed search yet for all
the machines I'd like to
search the house. I, I
converged on having one computer.
You know, I have one
computer that I use for
everything except for photo editing
and movie editing. And it's
a laptop and it goes
everywhere with me. And these
are degrees of simplicity that
buys me. It's not to
be believed. No. And then
you have a time machine
that backs that machine up,
and then you're set. In
fact, I had to do
it, my computer disc frightened
disc last week. And I
had to restore everything from
scratch my first, my first
attempt to do that with
time capsule and, and thank
goodness it worked. And you
survived indeed. That is the
definitely the best example of
a backup system working is
that that restore, that one
never actually practices that just
happens at the worst possible
time. Well, you know what?
I felt qualitatively nervous during
the, you know, 24 to
48 hour period between when
the computer fried itself. And
I got a new computer
put together and the restore
had completed cause you know,
everything, my whole life was
only in one place and
that's, I felt vulnerable. I
mean, you know, the time
capsule, it might've gone bad.
Right then I would have
really been up. That reminds
me of the way that
I used to feel about
tapes. You know, as many
times, as many years, as
I spent backing things up
to, you know, little Buffalo
tape drives nearly every restore
that I ever tried from
tape failed, which caused a
lifelong distrust of tape. And
now that so many years
have gone by, I can
almost guarantee that a hard
drive is going to fail.
So I really have no
trust if any storage medium
at this point, I think
as long as you can
keep everything in two places,
you know, and don't lock
anything important away and proprietary
formats, you can use sleep
easily at night. And if
you're, you know, failing to,
to, to do either of
those, you probably deserve to
be nervous. Another big thing
I changed a few years
ago that that's helped. You
never delete anything. Why would
you invest time and deleting
information? Most people never even
fill up their laptop hard
drives anymore. And you know,
you might need it again
sometime. So why do that?
Yeah. That's a really interesting
point. Now that you've got
a USB keys, that'll hold
eight gigs, not counting movies
and photos, which I think
we always kind of put
off in their own category,
the light, the life stream
of information, maybe not counting
code as well, depending on
how big your code gets
certainly would not be much
bigger than eight, eight, nine,
10 gigs. And certainly if
it ever got that big,
I'd have more, I suppose
I could put my whole
life on my iPhone at
this point. Yeah. One of
the things that I read
on your blog recently is
the, is the much and
often quoted memory is the
new disc disc is the
new tape and taken a
little bit of a sideways
direction. You posted the wide
finder problem a while back,
which was a wide finder
project, which got a lot
bigger than I thought it
would get it. Can you
talk a little bit about
how that started and why
it got so big? So
fast? Well, it's, it's an,
it's an amusing story. I
have a blog that's pretty
popular. And so I build
up gigabytes and gigabytes of
log files. I'm sure you're
intimately familiar with the situation.
And I had this weird
band with spike. So I
wrote this little Ruby program
to, to, to analyze it.
And then I was doing
some work with sun with
these new, highly parallel, low
clock rate, computers were making
the Niagara family and I
had an idea. So I
took some of that data
and ran the same Ruby
program against it. And it
ran substantially faster on my
Mac book than it did
on this, you know, $20,000,
you know, highly web optimized
sun server. And this was
a rude awakening. I mean,
like substantially faster on the
map book. Now these, these
things, you know, they have
like eight cores with eight
or 16 threads per core
and massive memory bandwidth and
outstandingly great IO, but it
only runs at like, you
know, 1.2 gigahertz and doesn't
have terribly fast arithmetic. And
it turns out that in
terms of handling a web
server load, you just can't
beat these guys. I mean,
you know, they're low wattage,
high throughput, outstandingly, great web
servers, but you know, it
seemed like maybe they're not
so great at being general
purpose computers. And this isn't
just a problem for sun.
It's a problem for the
whole industry because the economics
of doing these many core,
low clock rate computers are
just overwhelmingly huge, particularly as
we're facing, you know, HVAC
and power and air conditioning
problems in our, in our
data centers. And you know,
in the planet's warming up
too. Right? So, so this
is something we all gotta
be worried about. So I
launched wide finder, which simply
was okay, here's a bunch
of data. Here's the, here's
a Ruby program that runs
unacceptably slow on it. You
know, how are we going
to get good performance on
this class of computers? So
I ran wide Pinder one
last fall, and then I'm
doing wide finder two right
now I took it further.
I actually assembled 45 gig
of log files and staged
a one of these low
clock rate, high, many chorus
on servers facing the internet.
And you know, I said,
okay, anybody have at it.
And I've got dozens of
people now who are, who
are writing codes to, to
solve the problem in a
variety of languages. If you,
if you type wide finder
to, you know, you can
find the Wiki page with
some of the results that
are reported and there's two
problems. One is, can you
actually run this kind of
boring, but essential data processing
task on this class of
computer efficiently? And assuming the
answer is, yes, can you
do it in such a
way as to empower mere
mortal programmers to, to get,
you know, the, the mileage
that this, this kind of
hardware can do? The answer
is the first one is
yes. You know, it turns
out that in fact there's
a variety of ways you
can, you can, you can
run to get outstandingly great
performance. The answer to the
second question is it's not
clear yet. And I think
that that's really important. I
mean, it really should be
the notion of writing a
program. We should read lines
out of a file and
does something with them is,
you know, something that's never
going to go away. And
there ought to be a
really super easy way for
a programmer to say, Oh,
and by the way, it
doesn't matter what order you
do this in. And then
the computer should just automagically
deal it out among the
cores and IO, subsystems, and
so on to get a
good result. And, and well,
that's not there yet. And
I think that it's something
we really need. And to
the extent that white binder
can push back to that
frontier a little bit, I
think, you know, the, the
general benefit is potentially substantial.
Where do you think that
this problem is going to
be solved? Is this an
issue of smarter compilers and
appropriate language constructs? Or is
this a fundamental computer architecture?
Because everyone's saying that, you
know, my desktop will have
16 cores by, by, you
know, next year or whenever
it's always more and more
and more, I've got a
quad core now, or do
we need to just come
to terms with that? We
need different computers serving our
webpages than we do doing
our linear searches over log
files. Then we do using
our desktop. Well, I mean,
the fact that, you know,
you've got a quad, a
mirror quad core machine, which
is probably running at like
two plus gigahertz, probably 2.6.
If it's typical that soccer
is putting out, you know,
a whole lot of Watts
and, you know, burning your
lap and, and really creating
a challenge for the battery
designers. If in fact we
could run your laptop on
one of these many core
machines, a better battery life
and a cooler laptop and
life would be better. So
it's of general interest. And
the answer I suspect is
going to be half and
half. I mean, I don't
think that lever make the
compilers smart enough to spot
that the business logic doesn't
actually require, you know, a
sequential processing of some particular
file, but that'd be really,
really easy for the programmer
who knows to say, Oh,
for this loop, you know,
do whatever you want. You
know, this other loop, you
have to do it in
the right order. And what
we need to do is
make it really, really easy
for the programmer to express
that. And then, then the
machine will take over and
do the rest. What About
machines with dedicated co processors
that are appropriate for different
tasks to have, like, we've
always talked about how much
more powerful the PlayStation two
is, PlayStation three. Rather, it
didn't take very long for
PlayStation threes to get ahead
of all the other computers
in the world and protein
folding, because that's one thing
that they can do so
much better. And people are
starting to write libraries to
offload computations onto the GPU,
which is a processor that's
being unused. Do we need
to come up with generic
1632 processor machines that can
handle pretty much anything? Or
should we have three or
four different kinds of quad
dual proc machines that are
all specialized custom processors that
are appropriate for different tasks,
more heterogeneous, And historically general
purpose computers have always wiped
out special purpose computers. I
mean, there were lists of
machines and database machines and
various other kinds of special
purpose machines. And these days
health hack, we're all running
x86, right? So, so the
history would suggest that we
get the most leverage by
using general purpose machines. Now,
if in fact we get
the kind of thing I'm
talking about, where there's an
easy way for the programmer
to indicate that, you know,
the parallel approach is fine
here. Then, you know, whether
that, then that turns the
assistant designers free to Duke
it out and just figure
out where they're like a
Sony cell or cell architecture
or some, you know, Niagara
architecture or, you know, whatever
Intel's cooking up in the
back room. It turns out
to work better. And ideally
you'd like to have the
program or not have to
write code with some particular
processor in mind, because at
the end of the day,
that seems like an unsatisfactory
way to go Using the
sun Niagara, just as an
example, you know, how, how
different is that? How different
our new processor designs and
new system architecture designs, then,
then the sins of the
father? Well, I mean, it's
not nearly as, as weird
and exotic as the cell.
I mean, you know, the,
the Sony cell has a
conventional processor and then some
dozens of these weird little
special prosperous processors, the Niagara
has, it's just a spark
right around. It's the same
old spark construction set has
been going on for well,
God, 10 years now, the
thing is, it's got eight
processors or eight cars. Each
car has a, it's actually
kind of dual cord, two
instruction threads, and two, two
integers threads inside it. And
then as each it's got
four sets of thread, context
and hardware, so that when
once red block, you can
actually switch in the next
thread in one cycle. So,
you know, assuming you get
things blocking on IO, a
lot, which you do in
the real world, particularly in
web applications, you can actually
keep those eight core. It's
pretty well maxed out now,
you know, given that this
thing is running at 1.4
gigahertz and in the high
end models, we'll work it
out. That's a, a, that's
like an 11 gigahertz, a
throughput on a fairly low
water chip, which is a
pretty attractive thing to have
happen now because it's just
a spark. It is a
more attractable problem for making,
you know, accessible to the
ordinary program or something like
a Sony cell, which has
astounding throughput when correctly deployed
is going to be harder
for the compiler writers and
subsystem writers. Right? But ultimately
if a compiler writer figured
out a way to make
either appropriate language construct or
the correct, maybe jetted decisions,
one could exploit something like
a Sony cell, which has
historically been considered very, very
difficult to write for, and
then abstract that away, right?
I mean, every problem is
solved by another layer of
abstraction. Can we abstract a
way that the toolbox of
different kinds of processors that
is a Sony cell such
that it wouldn't be a
big deal anymore? It's at
least not going to be
easy, you know, and thus,
I I'm, I'm focused on
trying to make some income
incremental process. I'm trying to
take one small step forward,
which is, can we, you
know, take the data, the
common data processing idiom of
sequentially processing records out of
a file and at least
abstract away the parallelism in
that, you know, if we
can do that, that's better
than we can do it
right now. And it's a
step forward. And then we
can start to look at
that as the next wave
of the problem. Now, I
mean, there is, there are
people who have gone deep
on this. If you're running
a classic Java, EEG application,
these kinds of processes, it
works great right now today
because the core of that
web frame has been carefully
engineered to be thread safe.
And it all just works.
But, you know, I'm interested
in this sort of the
more good old fashioned general
purpose data processing application, you
know, the world of Perl
scripts and things. Right. Well,
and interestingly, I think Pearl's
kind of the number one
implementation of their, of your
original wide finder right now.
If I could. Well, the
last time I looked the,
the current wave, there's an
old camel program that is,
that is holding the lead.
Huh. Now how important is
IO in all of this?
I mean, sometimes you hear
about these super powered concurrent
machines that have a, you
know, mediocre IO, so they
can think really fast, but
they just can't get the
information into the process or
fast enough. Right. That's one
of the nice things about
both the Niagara has got
outstandingly, great memory band was.
And when you say IO
these days, you know, you're
also talking about memory bandwidth
because it's typical for these
things to have, you know,
many gigabytes of Ram and
just staging that in and
out of the processor is
a problem before you even
get off the ship or
off, off the, off the,
off the system board. The
question of whether it's IO
bound or not is actually
a very complex question. And,
you know, in a complex
system, that's running an application
or a suite of applications,
as everybody knows, you can,
all you can ever really
do is move the bottleneck
around. Right. You know, because
at some point you're always
going to be bottlenecked on
something. And ideally you'd like
a situation where you run
out of IO, bandwidth and
compute bandwidth at exactly the
same point. It'll never happen,
but you know, it's so
far wide finder has been
doing pretty well. The, the
best, the best programs they've
been running a boat as
fast that disc and possibly
run and getting really, really
good usable utilization of it
all. Did you expect that?
Did you expect them to
become a disc bound quickly?
I actually, I actually thought
it would be more IO
bound than it has been,
but you know, these guys
are doing clever tricks to
actually parallelize the IO as
well. And he said, well,
how can you do that?
There's only one desk. Well,
maybe not true. I mean,
I'm running this on, on
a, on a CSS file
system with two disks in
it. You know, you know,
when you say a disc,
well, these days, particularly when
you're in a large server
environment, a disc can be
an ass or a sand
with eight levels of indirection
and smarts behind it. So,
you know, parallel as an
IO is, is it's a
very realistic kind of thing.
That's interesting. So funny that
we talk about abstractions and
this, this language is a
new language construct that allows
me inappropriate layer of abstraction.
But now we're starting to
think about, well, how would
I write this program if
I had two disc heads
or eight disc heads virtually,
or otherwise, Julie, you know,
push back on that, you
don't want the program to
think about that. You ideally,
you just like the program
or to say, you know,
or the order of evaluation
and this loop is not
significant and let the system,
which has, you know, a
combination of the compiler and
the runtime has a better
knowledge of what kind of
computer is sitting behind them.
Then there's an, the programmer
has let them work it
out, Certainly in an ideal
world. Yes. But don't you
think that some of the
implementations now have a little
bit of carnal knowledge about
the system, Look at the
big web applications, you know,
the Facebooks and my spaces.
And so on of this
world, I would say the
answer is no, in my
experience, they tend to put
memcache D up there and
try and load as much
stuff in, into, into memory
as they can. And they
tend to have this very
abstracted view of, of, of,
you know, they've got processor
instances talking to a great
big memory cache talking back
to the great big relational
pool and maybe one of
these post relational databases in
there. But beyond that, I
don't think there tends to
be, you know, a lot
of system level knowledge about,
you know, the structure of
the processor and the actual
path to the, to the
silicone, Is that an inappropriate
layer of abstraction that they
even could make a differentiation
between disc memory and, and
database. I mean, in a
perfect world, When you started
this conversation, you were talking
about the old thing about
discussed the new tape. And,
well, that's really true because,
you know, we sneer at
this these days and the
comp conventional wisdom is that
for a high volume web
application, you can't have a
desk in the query path
or you're going to get,
you're going to choke and
well, that's not actually true.
Assuming you read and write
the disc sequentially disc actually
have fantastically high performance. If
you treat them as tape
like sequential devices, what you
really can't afford to have
is a random acts of
just doing random access in,
in query path, because on,
you know, commodity describes, if
we'd all like to use,
you know, we were still
limited to a few hundred,
a second, you know, random
accesses, which is clearly, you
know, inappropriate for any kind
of a high volume web
application. But, you know, there's
the notion of having, you
know, disks at the backend
that are best used sequentially,
you know, front ended by
a Memcached D or equivalent,
which as basically has, you
know, very different latency characteristics.
You know, that that's something
that isn't so complicated that
it really, you know, compromises
your system design. Hmm. It
did one thing. It struck
me a little interesting is
the, the number of what
I would consider relatively exotic
languages that people immediately said,
Oh, well just solve white
finger I'll I'll, I'll bring
Earl Lang in which I
don't think of as being
an incredibly mainstream kind of
a language During the first
white binder, I had dug
it myself and spent a
few weeks banging away with
Earl Lang. And boy, does
it ever change? My thinking,
you know, early, I think
early, I think has very
important lessons that we all
need to learn from. And
let me tell you this.
If somebody were to pay
me today to put up
some sort of a big
message, dispatching application that needed
a good performance and it
needed to be up all
the time, you know, no
downtime, it needed to be
up with very high reliability
for months at a time,
I would unhesitatingly choose our
line to build it in,
you know, the kind of
thinking that's gone into you,
don't miss the messaging architecture.
And in particular, the reliability
engineering of Erlang is just
streaks ahead of anything else
I've seen. Now it's a
painful fact. The airline has
extremely bad file IO, extremely
bad string processing and extremely
bad regular expressions, which is
like physical pain too. You
know, scripting language veterans like
me. But as somebody pointed
out, it's probably easier to
fix her lines, file handling
than to have, you know,
the real maintainability engineering wired
onto some, some other language.
No, I don't think her
lying. That's going to take
over and become all that
mainstream because it's just too
weird. It's not object oriented.
The variables aren't variable. It
doesn't have loops. There's, you
know, it really requires a
shift in the way you
think. But, but I do
think that, you know, the,
the, the, the fast growing
languages, you know, the, the
rubies and PHP is, and
Python's of this world need
to learn some of the
languages, the lessons that are,
is trying to teach. Yeah.
I think that's really interesting
because that might my question
that kind of popped in
my head, as you said,
well, it's not object oriented
made me wonder if there
are really, and I use
this phrase a second time,
that the sins of the
father that are still causing
us to maybe head in
the wrong direction, you know,
w P people are saying,
you know, it'll all turn
into lists, but at the
end, but I, I wonder
though, if there's something that
we're just we're missing because
of whether it be x86
or whether it be Oh,
concepts, or just any number
of these different bits of
history that, that are holding
us back from truly. But
that, I mean, clearly there
are some, you know, monuments
that are crumbling and, you
know, the advent of things
like coach DB and simple
DB and table, and so
on, you know, the, the,
the brain locks that the
CR data through SQL has
had on, on our architects
is starting to crack, right?
And there's starting to be
a notion that there are
persistent architectures, persistent architectures that
are not relational. And, you
know, the, the notion that
to get performance, you had
to have a compiled statically
type language, is that, that
notion is crumbling away in
the face of things like
Python and Ruby and rails
and so on. But I
don't get the feeling that
object orientation is under serious
threat, you know, although PHP
as well, the popular there's,
I think there's a general
feeling that it's a shortcoming,
that PHP is not really
natively object oriented. It's just
also, I think, I don't
feel that object orientation is,
is really under attack. And
I do feel that, you
know, the lack of object
orientation and Erlang is it's
a genuine shortcoming, Really
is under attack. What, what
are some constructs that, that
are Well, what I was
just talking about? I mean,
you know, the notion that
all data has to be
under relational is clearly under.
So, so fundamentally the architecture
is All the important languages
look like either Java or
C sharp. It is also
clearly under attack as you
know, Python and Ruby, a
and those kinds of things
have a monotonically increasing market
share, which is not slowing
down at all. Hmm. Interesting.
Well, Tim Bray, thank you
so much for taking the
time to sit down with
me today. I appreciate you
taking the time out of
your day. Good to talk
to you. This has been
another episode of Hanselminutes and
we'll see you again next
week.